# GradSchoolDistribution
There was a post on the r/physics subreddit, which has since been deleted and can't be linked, that mentioned frustrations that it seemed all of the top schools only had students that graduated from other top schools. 

It makes sense to me for a couple reasons why this may be true; good students get into good schools then get good jobs; a lot of good schools are clumped together, so it would make sense that the academics know each other and may be working on similar ideas. 

Regardless, I figured it would be an amusing project to see if this was actually true, so I am going to try and see the distribution of academics and where they received their PhD from. I am mostly interested in math, so that will be my focus. 

I will probably have to make some adjustments as I go, but the general idea I  have now is to scrape the math geneaology project (https://genealogy.math.ndsu.nodak.edu/) for information on where people got their PhDs, then scrape the usnews math grad school rankings (https://www.usnews.com/best-graduate-schools/top-science-schools/mathematics-rankings) and see which schools count as "top" schools. I will then go through all of the schools ranked in usnews, navigate to their department page, and see who is listed as faculty. This part will hopefully be something I can automate, and will be the most annonying part. I also want to scrape google scholar for a future idea to see how many papers each person had by the time they graduated. 

There are some obvious issues. For example, grad school rankings aren't static, so someone graduating from Princeton in 1970 may have graduated from the 9th ranked school (just made that number up), as opposed to if they graduated in 2020 when it was ranked 1st. So one of the standard assumptions I'll be making is that rankings don't change that much, but given that I am essentially analyzing how "good" students end up at "good" universities, this may make the analysis bunk, as it could be the case that people graduated from low rank universities, went to another low rank university and built up the department so that it is now ranked. I'll have to think about that more, and see if it is possible to get previous department rankings. Then just a technical issue may be that departments don't have a uniform way of displaying their data, so getting lists of current faculty for all of the listed usnews colleges may not be feasible.
